oh boy everyone is hot lightly episode
26 you're clicking the YouTube video
you're listening to the podcast you're
hearing in my roommates laughing really
loudly outside while I'm trying to start
the show going there's so much to talk
about tonight because I am leaving
Wednesday we're just we're just hours
out from my departure to M s I in Berlin
oh my god the groups are starting team
like what's gonna be there as double if
gonna be able to pull something off I
don't know he's gonna be what we talked
about for 30 minutes of this episode
because you know we're all biased like
that there's so much talk about we're
getting into it hot line League episode
26 starts now
hot line League is brought to you by
open by HP and here we are it is time
I'm joined by my co-host my guest
everyone tonight to talk about so much
exciting stuff on this week's episode to
my next to me I think maybe you guys
will see it on the left so alright so in
this direction is Mark my constant
co-host he is sold out he is wearing an
offline TV shirt from his former
employer he's wearing an echo fox hat
from his future employer we're gonna be
talking about that in just a minute mark
has a very exciting announcement a delta
fox analyst Mark Zimmerman oh yeah
that's right we've also got Kel be me
below me who is returning it's been a
bit Kobe when were you last on I haven't
been on for two episodes two weeks yeah
really long I missed you yeah well miss
you guys when's your merch coming out so
I can wear that on the way subscribe I
got that this hoodie made I'm actually
curious if people want to purchase it
because if they do want to purchase it
maybe I will make more of them mark
what's been going on with you for this
past week I got sick you the greatest
thing about doing this show with you for
the past month is like every episode you
have some great news to share with us
hey guys not working at offline
oh yeah I won't be going to MSI this
past week I've just kind of sat around
now I'm sick you know it just I'm gonna
develop a heroin addiction that's my
goal for next week you know gonna keep
going down this dark path and see where
it leads
yeah ambitious I mean I got a lot of
free time so yeah that's good uh Kelby
what's going on with you please please
give me more than what mark just gave me
ah damn I've been chillin Britney's
birthday was this weekend so we hung out
and we did birthday stuff and then yeah
there's everything so if you go to the
YouTube videos for this you can see you
can actually track like the drop-off of
when people are watching and usually the
show starts and then there's a pretty
big dip and then OH Britney was watching
yeah there's a pretty big dip and then
and then it starts to come back after
the intro and so I'm starting to realize
people don't really care about our
personal lives and I can't really blame
them they're not particularly
interesting no I mean did you just hear
it I'm sick that was all I did I met up
with some high school friends for the
first time in three years that's cool
no no one cares about that have you been
watching the show ms:i no a little bit
okay and I watch everyone freaked out at
the caster's for missing a goddamn
Korean soloqueue ezreal build
yeah the bring me out there the
subreddit is very aggressive right now
and I don't I don't know why we and we
had our own situation this past week we
won't we won't go into it because I like
to sweep stuff under the rug but I talk
about parts what yeah talk about Park
Nadeau
dude listen I'm trying to I'm trying to
raise funds Kelby I don't know more
extra drama on this this week's show but
but I do feel like the sober is just out
for blood and I don't
I don't really know why I may be there
they're bored or there's not enough
content and a world where there's less
interviews and highlights and big plays
and an app team announcements maybe
people just fill the subreddit with
anger and rage I believe it I also think
feeling a lot of images like but mad
about the game in general right now you
know like how many complaint puss you
see like top lane sucks
no one can carry anymore I miss
assassins the jungle changes are dumb
every jungle change you ever make is
dumb never touch the jungle again in
your life riot oh and by the way I hate
casters okay it's like the kitchen sink
like the caster said something throwing
Travis and hotline Li gonna throw that
in yeah the spectator didn't the
specters get blown up like oh the
Koreans are saying lol ck lck spectators
are better and everything they do is
better including their observers yeah
there's just um I mean like the thing is
like I see where a lot of the time
they're coming from so like to an extent
I agree it just feels gonna always get
like super blow this is my thing this is
my thing like I don't without going into
the drama from this past week you know
people were really upset with I did a
whole video if you guys want to check it
out about like how parts called in and
how he handled that last week and nobody
ever goes in the comments that says like
hey Travis like loved the show I think
that section could have been moderated a
little bit better or oh wow it was like
interesting to see parth kind of behave
that way like I've seen him and in tears
some legends and so maybe he's a little
different
it's like whoa Werth I've lost all
respect for him I've been a TSM fat for
years and I've watched that ten minutes
and now I hate him or like you know
Travis I've seen that I saw how you
behaved in that answer
and now after watching every hotline
League episode I will never watch a
hotline link again never again and I
will comment and dislike and and yell at
you on every single video you ever do
you I have never voted a presidential
election in my life I don't care what my
mom calls me but I won't I will be heard
on this issue and
so I know your satirizing them but it's
actually pretty reasonable I think I'm
done with this show too actually okay
good yeah we're all done we're all done
yeah I just
there's no whenever an event happens
there's never like I've lost 25 percent
of my respect for this person I've lost
like three respect points for them you
always lose all respect you know it's
such a binary thing loss of respect well
if you want to get uploaded you have to
be dramatic yeah and like I think there
was good discussion in the red thread
about us like I read that like there's
some points I agree with someone didn't
and that's how it is with most of those
threads it's like I see where you're
coming from
a lot of it makes sense but you're just
like speaking with so much hyperbole
that like I just it's hard to get
through I've lost all respect for the NA
spectators I have lost all oversee all
respect needs to become a meme I've just
like I've lost all respect for Israel's
blue-billed I don't know um all right
anyway I'm trying to think if there's
anything I am moving so after I'll
probably have one MSI after or sorry one
hotline League after MSI where you guys
will see this place and then I'll be
moving I should probably hype it up for
a hype vid or something like that but it
sounds like assuming everything goes
well I'm gonna have a a dedicated
bedroom just for creating content so
I'll turn that into a studio the Travis
Kaffir studio will be more real than it
is right now so except for that did you
win that bid on that place in the Malibu
Hills then yeah yeah we mean the place
where they filmed Iron Man Tony Stark
plays oh I thought that was your second
choice
oh no the first one fell through it's a
little bit more modest than I think what
you ever seeking there's a lot of clean
lines there's a lot of came lines over
there which is what I like how are we
back on the personal lives I thought we
transitioned off this how are we back
here I was making a joke this whole
everything about the show is just about
my personal life I mostly do it just to
you know try to find a novel it's not
playing time to talk about myself well
I'm headed out to FSI this week we're
gonna
we've got game starting on Friday lots
of stuff to talk about plans have been
happening mark how much of the plans I I
will admit I have not really watched the
plans because I care more about who's
getting or who gets out than how it
happens but mark if you want to give an
update or thoughts on any of that stuff
that'd be great so I've actually mostly
been watching for like meta and like
that kind of stuff and so work I haven't
really been keeping track of results cuz
I'm usually I'm watching it like the
next day during the rebroadcast yeah and
then I'm just like idly watching it on
another monitor so I really don't have
too many specific thoughts like gambit
said that they would be a top four team
in the EU LCS that was funny
supermassive looks pretty good
Japan still sucks and no one should ever
get their hopes up for them for the next
two years I don't know yeah I all be
willing to talk more specifically if
collars you know bring it up I'm also
going to talk about that caster pointed
oh we don't want to touch too much on
drama but what what does the medal
looking like are you predicting we see a
very exciting like MSI group stage and
elimination stage or we are is it gonna
be dull what do you think so far from
what you like the gameplay that you've
seen I mean - like the likelihood that
Korea is gonna win it all I'm like how
dull you find that I think I think it'll
be fun
I think more than likely like the
playing team who makes it that'll be
pretty crazy and North American people
will care about that here people will
care about that I'm really excited to
watch the Chinese team plays so I think
all the regions should have fun with the
event as long as like I hope people
weren't watching plans to I feel like
that will just like burn you out if
you're watching like two weeks of planes
before finally watching the team you
actually care about play yeah
yeah I mean we've talked about this
before I think on link weekly where I I
worry that and and I kind of feel the
same way I did last year and I must say
when they just did this that I I worry
that they are somewhat I don't know like
this it's the brand for the main event
almost though the plans are as long also
your knee almost are I said
like it takes forever to get through the
play ends it feels like yeah it just
kind of feels like it weekend's like the
brand of msi when it's like alright
wake me up whenever you're the real msi
starts because it doesn't feel like it
has you know at least that's how I feel
I don't know I mean Kelby I assume that
you don't you're not watching until
Peter gets on stage well I got been
going to the subreddit cuz I've been
like I haven't been super closely
following the schedule of things so I go
to the subreddit and I'm like are there
games and then I look at the list of you
know the the results the post game
matches and I'm like I know none of
these teams yeah I don't I don't care
when when are the real games started I'm
a more casual League fan obviously yeah
I mean the other problem is like a lot
of the teams that you would like think
you would know previously from other
international wildcard planes like half
them have new fucking names like
pentagram is the same as rampage was
last year but there's just called
pentagram now Rainbow seven is the same
team as Lion gaming it's like all the
same players so they just have a new
name so like to a casual fan II was like
tuning in like if they don't
specifically remember the players
they're not gonna remember like some of
these teams even though they've seen
them before I mean I personally only
care about top teams and the four
biggest regions so yeah well well
beginning to that finally this week
which is great news and then I guess the
other thing that got announced that's
interesting is we now know where summer
finals is going to be which is great by
the way cuz you know and historically
right it's been much slower on
announcing a so so congratulations to
them credit where it's to do are you
gonna do a whole video congratulating
them Travis yeah congratulations you did
it and so I guess we can talk a little
bit about that it's gonna be in Oakland
at the same place where the Warriors
play Oracle Arena so that's kinda neat
are you concerned about collusion at all
Travis no I am terrified are you is
there it was there any conversation
about that on reddit I'm just kind of
curious I think there are some jokes
cracked out like home court advantage
I'm een in the world where you tell your
franchise sports teams like we're never
going to use your venue
if
you if you join our league I think
that's that's a tough that's a tough
sales pitch so yeah and it's the right
time to go yeah because like the
likelihood golden Guardians make the
finals you know this is a good time for
it oh one other thing that happened is
folks that can that want to let's just
happen I I just found it about it
earlier today folks that want to go to
the right Gamescom slash career section
of the site they are there actually a
job posting up for a head of business I
believe want to see if I can find the
exact titles but in in eSport
specifically so I think a lot of people
have been little oh yeah it's a business
development lead and for North American
eSports and so I think a lot of people
have been disappointed previously with
sort of the lack of sponsorships and the
way that perhaps rights worked with
partners you know it's been it's been a
year and a half since the BAM tech deal
got announced
so I excited to sort of see what happens
there I don't know if anybody wants to
call in and have a conversation about
that but it's it's good to see that in a
world where I kind of later watches and
what is that the posting that calls for
ten years of sales experience or is that
the other position I don't see oh yeah
you have at least a bachelor's degree
and ten plus years of experience in
business development or sales
specifically targeting sports and our
sponsorship brand deal experience I must
watch hot line League yeah I did three
months in Cutco I sold knives for three
months in the summer and I got an award
for T concussion apply my content has
possibly you know even with no msi
happening or sponsor happening my
content might have gotten as many
sponsors as riots na LCS has this past
year so Jesus you have two sponsors well
I have omen for this show or we have
omen for the show wonderful sponsor
shadow to omen oh yes sir Omni slash I
did a thing with rivalry we did
something HTC eSports at the end of last
year mobile lytx before that so yeah
quite quite a few brands
I don't know I mean Kelby are you saying
ten years is too much experience to eat
like this it's just it's just very
interesting to me because I think
anybody so like you'll get a lot of
people with solid resumes and a lot of
background but in my experience um I
mean what you probably need is somebody
with the rolodex right yeah but I so
based on what I've seen it's always very
helpful in addition to the rolodex you
need to have somebody who understands
the space really well in order to be
able to sell it and I feel like a lot of
people based on what I've seen through
different sales cultures and companies
I've been a part of if you have that
much experience you may be a very
confident seller but the odds that
you're actually an eSports fan is not
very high because you're probably older
and have more professional experience in
like eSports just misses so what if they
paired some like a person who has done
like all these mega deals with somebody
like like a Kelby may who knows how to
sell eSports stuff but doesn't
necessarily have like the the top-tier
relationships with everybody
perfect perfect pairing not saying me
specifically but yeah yeah somebody who
has eSports specific sales experience I
think is uh it's a good combo there cool
all right so there's something there
well hey why don't we start getting into
the cost if you guys want to talk about
MSI if you if you want to say if you
want to make predictions on how that's
gonna go I think we'll try to do a
hotline like next week but if we don't
you know like now's your chance to kind
of make something happen I have a
nocturnal so we can do it like a
European one okay well we'll figure it
out but we can talk about that we can
talk about Auckland we can talk about
the sales stuff we can talk about
anything you guys want it's hotline
League it's your show so why don't you
you guys let us know Martin the spiel
yeah and the way that you let us know is
that we have discord and posting into
chat right now so you're gonna want to
join that discord and then there is
gonna be voice channels called pleb
calls and plug calls - you're gonna want
to join one of
and then there is a text channel above
it called plebs topics and within that
you're gonna want to type whatever
you're hot take is so you think Oakland
won't be that cool you think Oakland
will be the best venue ever
you're not looking forward to MSI
whatever it is give us your take on what
you want to talk about not just the
question or what the topic is but
actually your take so we can get a feel
for what we're getting into because
sometimes we don't know what we're
getting into
very true now for those of you that are
subs and there are so many of you guys
joining right now by the way thank you
very much there is a sub stop fix
section on the discord we check that as
well there's a little bit less
competition there with people opening in
there their topics are hot take so
there's a bit of an increased chance of
getting callin via that so while mark is
populating that I want to do two things
first off I want to shout out to crave
zero we said good seek I'll be back to
Dallas $40.00 who put less than three
real foxy gifted us up to enter cast
Berserker the star father
Jass it 1 echo CD Mr Man 3 and X doe boo
you who have all subbed or supported and
thank you guys so much
if you for those of you that are
watching right now if you if it's not
too late in your area you want stick
around I'm gonna stay on stream for a
little bit afterwards and maybe do an
AMA and a hangout just to kind of help
raise some funds for Miami side trip
which will be starting shortly mark I
know normally you have you pull a couple
people in the waiting room but should we
just start off and then maybe whenever
we do the sponsor break you can you can
pull some more yeah one guy ready to go
so let's do that
ok cool Kelby very excited to our first
caller at 8:40 what's that I said we're
doing our first caller at 8:40 if we
want to talk about Avengers and there
hey we got Chris one zero two two seven
who was on the show can I just call you
Chris Chris ones you're interrupting me
we got to talk about Chris we go talk to
Chris Chris wait a month to spoil
Avengers
just write about the fortnight thing
Chris can I call you Chris
yeah yeah sure where you calling from
I'm calling from the Caribbean from the
Caribbean that is so cool
I I love it when we get international
callers in and I I got to admit I don't
know if I would have ever predicted it
we'd get a caller from the Caribbean
how's the Caribbean right now because I
expect it to just be paradise
misconception but herb is pretty nice
well what do you want to talk about on
the show today
oh I want to talk about uh haben like a
team dynasty versus having like a
rotating set of like champions so like
all TSM ah so dynasty well had a dynasty
no versus every every LCS up in a
separate different window or in world
stuff in separate win every time and
what do you which one do you prefer I I
think like cuz I'm with teal fun right
so I think when TL is added salt
I'd prefer up in Seattle is a dynasty
but then something like if I like when I
disliked TSM I draw the TSM gets awful
so I just wanted to say hey you guys
take on that
so you're here in favor of dynasties
when it involves your favorite team but
when it's not your favorite team you
hate sounds like either even if my
favorite team is losing I mean in one
way to relate this back to a messiah is
that we don't have a scatty at MSI yeah
so it's it's an interesting conversation
glad to have it a little bit brought
more broadly but also kind of kicking
off of the MSI topic so Kelby I don't
know if it's you or mark maybe that want
to talk on this Kelby I know you've been
a fan of certain teams I feel like you
seem you tend to be interested in teams
to have dynasties yeah yeah so I what I
think is that
dynasties are good up until a point for
ability whatever is building the best
narrative I think is really cool and you
see it a lot in traditional sports over
longer periods of time where you'll
you'll cycle out through different
periods in sports where certain teams
are really strong and then obviously for
that home area it's awesome for those
guys but then when ever they're being
challenged each year it's interesting
for everybody else to see if they will
actually be toppled and then when the
fall finally does happen or like you
know when when the Warriors blow a 3-1
lead to the Cavs you know and LeBron
James like starts to make the push for
like gold and stuff like that that's
that's really interesting I think that
in league it's interesting because we
kind of see not necessarily a team
dynasty but a region dynasty and a lot
of people talk about like is it
problematic for the viewership of the
game at the international level we know
their region stands a chance and I think
that's kind of valid because ultimately
I do think you want to have at least the
impression that somebody can be beaten
it's good for narrative otherwise like
if this if the story spoiled for you
it's less interesting right and then but
yeah I think like some if if teams are
winning and they're doing a lot of good
creation round they're winning like TSM
has done in North America specifically
then I think it's strong for a region
but I also like you know the fact that
along the way we did have sealed g and
c9 who are other big brands winning as
well and obviously now we got TL in
there but it would be did some that I
say something no Chris I think it was
just maybe it would be problematic
though in my mind if we achieved a state
of I actually don't know about how I
feel about like full parity if that's
like where everyone is equal you're
saying we're any yeah it happened
because you end up in a world where like
nothing matters because any team like
it's all kind of up in the
there's not it's kind of hard to create
a storyline out of like right randomness
right well anybody could win yeah I
think the problem - anyone can win
narrative specifically in league is that
they basically play like one to two
tournaments a year in originally and so
like you don't have enough data points
to actually even ever make that argument
that like any team can win because like
one team will win half the international
competitions because there are two
where's like in melee to talk about that
scene when it was like 2013 through 2015
it felt like you know everyone had like
their different peaks was like he was
dominant for three or four months and
this guy was dominant for sale but it
felt like anyone could win and those
tournaments were so fun to watch because
it was like wow that guy just popped off
this tournament that was really cool
yeah they had tournaments you know all
the fucking time and League it's like
you would never even know if you're in a
pair like a state of parity so that's at
the international level at the at the
regional level like it is fair to say i
think that TSM had a dynasty for quite
some time and i remember at a certain
point in time i started to not root
against TSM but hope for their loss
because i just got tired of like and
another time in TSM one like that is
what made the CLG win in 2015 at Madison
Square Garden like such this epic moment
and League of Legends and North American
history because you saw like like you
almost had like the opposite of a
dynasty with CLG who under Kelby Mae's
leadership just lost a lot and and as
soon as he left you know like things
really turn around for that team so the
very next split in fact yes yes so so it
created such a good moment I I don't
know I think it's the type of thing
where I don't think you ever want a
dynasty to continue for too long like I
think if League of Legends ends and the
Korean dynasty has never really been
toppled and it's just sort of like yeah
if you look back like Korea just pretty
much wrecked the entire time that's kind
of a bad feeling but in a world where
you do see you know like North America
or an EU especially one of those two two
regions I think topple like a
Korea in the end of the at the end of
the year and world's or something that's
gonna feel like such an epic moment I
feel like it's important for China to
win yes they're the biggest player base
region yeah
I think good getting back to the
regional point I feel like a degree of
dynasty is good because it gives like
players a real chance like build their
legacy which i think is important but I
think if there's like this weird
balancing act between like being
dominant in a good way I'm being too
dominant and making it not fun and it
felt like like the TSM with doublelift
was like probably going too far in that
direction or like if he came back for
another split and they're like yeah
we're fine winning na and that's that
that was their approach than like I
think you would have started to like run
that risk in North America yeah
potentially yeah it was time with that
though I like like you heard Chris
saying that kind of about like are you a
fan it's yes I'm great sure I don't care
yeah yeah conversely you end up in a
weird situation where I think a lot of
people expected I think viewership
outperformed expectations this year for
the finals because is you didn't have a
TSM in the finals right like I've heard
some rumors that if you pull NIF North
American League of Legends fans 50% of
them say that they are TSM fans and so
in a world where like 50 percent of the
the fan base is you know so used to
having their team play and compete in
the finals year over a year after year
and then you suddenly give them a Finals
where they're not inert like that could
potentially be disaster so I actually
think dynasties and like the fan base
that can be built around them can be
detrimental from like a business and
health standpoint because you are
because of like the bandwagon effect on
people like cheering for winners like
you're creating such a unfair
distribution of like fandom and an
interest until this one team yep yep I
don't know Chris
do you have anything else that you you
think of the the narrative or sorry the
conversation around dynasties and all
that well like I think alternately so
what you just said is also I think it
generates a lot of a lot of interest
when two teams that are not normally at
finals play too
so yeah
yeah I mean at school I think that there
there was a lot of it was cool to sort
of see like what would happen in a world
where TSM wasn't just there to take the
win so that's very it does build kind of
like a counter narrative as well so hey
Chris I want to thank you so much for
calling in it was really good to hear
from you and thanks for calling in all
the way from Caribbean thanks for
calling in Chris okay
I hope he I hope he didn't feel like he
had to get disconnected himself or
anything like that really quickly mark
is off collecting our next victim
candidate depending on if parts on the
show or not I wanna give a second to
shout out our sponsor our partner as I
mute Davidson who just joining the
channel and omen by HP they are the
proud supporter of the show I hope
they're proud you know I this show
there's a lot of craziness that until we
hear otherwise their take until we hear
otherwise they're proud to support the
show I you guys have heard me talk about
Owen by HP in fact they've been doing so
much cool stuff in the eSports space for
so many years now basically ever since
they really started you know kind of
creating their brand in their voice and
and who they are in the space they've
known they wanted to be aligned with
discussion around competitive
competitive video games and so not only
have you seen them sponsor things like
overwatch League but they you know they
sponsored seal Jesus an announcement
that came out recently and and this
today I was I was filming something and
a studio nearby and somebody just turned
on the almond by HP twitch stream which
you guys can check out over at which
that TV show my by HP and they had the
dojo the omen dojo going with sticks a
who was giving lessons on on how to get
better as an ADC so you know they've
been doing all a whole lot of cool stuff
in the space
I am leaving with Broden on Wednesday to
MSI's we've discussed previously we'll
be traveling with Owen by HP gear
similar to what Mark is holding right
now I don't think we'll bring a keyboard
but he's got a keyboard in his hand
which is a little dark you can't tell
but it it it is it is mark tries to help
with this stuff this has been great
about keeping me healthy yeah it's not
gonna be an official like usage of the
product but it really helps with my
sickness anyway so we'll be traveling to
Europe and we'll be doing all of our
edits all of our production on omen by
HP gear as a streaming off of an omen by
HP computer omen of HP monitors what I'm
looking at they did my point is look I
use their stuff they don't tell me that
I have to tell you that it's great but I
actually I've really enjoyed all the
stuff that I've used by them their stuff
is great and one of the cool things by
the ways I've seen a lot of people
tweeting at me specifically saying like
I got this laptop because or this
notebook because of the support of omen
by HP for Halloween League I got this
monitor that stuff is so great I
appreciate so much I I just want to say
thank you so much to them for supporting
the show for allowing mark and I to have
a financially profitable endeavor and
quite frankly like their support of
shows like this is sort of what allows
me to stay independent and and take
risks on things like MSI so thank you
guys so much for supporting omen by HP
thank you so much don't wanna buy HP for
the support and be sure to check them
out you can check them out on Twitter on
on Twitch and elsewhere so now we move
on to our next caller who's Davidson who
is a frequent caller into hotline League
who is up early his time how's it going
Davidson it's good and for those that
don't know do you want to let everybody
know where you're calling from I'm
called the phone suite up from Sweden I
remember David Davidson school
Davidson history Davidson life Sunday
man yeah he does he's a big North
America fan do you need to drop are you
having technical issues I'm super scared
okay it's not about what I don't it's
all relational Davidson what do you want
to talk about on the show step set
because eventually those you stars come
to na
yeah this is we just look at MSI really
as a scouting opportunity David said
what do you want to talk about on the
show today so so I think this year's MSI
will be the starting point of you
contending for number one in
international tournaments Wow okay
again you're throwing way back by the
way we're going we're going back to like
in season one I would say season two
like og if co GU beats Frost in the
semi-final like which - oh and crushing
game three yeah anyway I think they were
in contention I think I I loved Davidson
cuz he's just got like he wakes up early
and Europe he's like alright there's
that North America show all those na
guys are watching it time for me to call
in and set the record straight so why do
you think why is Europe gonna do so well
so especially because it's fnatic that's
represent at this year so they had a lot
of time to gel together and we saw at
this world championship last year that
it kind of fell apart it kind of got it
together but they weren't a total team
and we've seen now in the spring splits
that they have really worked out their
macro issues like reckless have talked
about with caps and not being able to
play side side lane and so on and I
really think this makes them a real
strong team and with them getting
exposure from better teams and more
international exposure I think they can
bring that back to the ESS and
especially to lost next year's
franchising that will bring together a
lot of talents into really good teams so
so why wouldn't it make more sense if
you was to go forth and have a
a dynasty or a competition to to be you
know number one or consistently number
two that that would happen next year
when we have franchising take place so I
think me saying that it's the star of it
I think it's just this going to be the
jumping pad and franchising will just be
another step upon it because I think
there's a lot of really good talent me
but they are so much matched here so you
spread out so like inconsistent teams
but with such a great players
so I think franchising in new teams
would really pick up on that and see
what like Schalke did wrong this year
yes bitten so on and work and nothing
improving guts yeah what do you think of
this mark I think I agree more with the
second half of the points with regards
to like the infrastructure stuff and
essentially franchising helping out a
lot I have a hard time believing like
this tournament will go better for
fnatic than last year's MSI did for g2 I
think that is basically as good as it
could possibly go and I don't think I
don't think fnatic will have the same
results why not what's the difference I
think just with how g2 was a little bit
one I think that got kind of lucky to
get there with didn't they have to be
flash wolves right in China lost to
Korea if I remember well regardless yeah
regardless of that I think I liked how
GT played it was less it felt like less
you need uni-dimensional where it was
like hey perks is pretty good and Sven
is good they have like a lot of
different people who can pop off and
then here really
I know caps is good and I don't want to
put any hate on him up there or their
playstyle so clearly like the reckless
show so I I don't know it just feels
like especially with how many teams run
through their ad carry right now plus
the meta runs through their ad carry for
fnatic to beat orangey and King zone and
like that kind of stuff that means that
like literally
gonna say that they're gonna play around
reckless better than these other teams
are gonna play around their ad carry's
which I don't think will happen and if
it does then like massive hats off to
them I can see them doing well I can see
them doing better in North America but I
I can even see them potentially doing as
well as GT did in the best case scenario
we're like they make finals and lose to
Korea but I don't think it'll even be
that good
Davidson how well do you think EU is
gonna do at this tournament if he even
if you're saying it's it's sort of like
the jumping pad or the the launch of
what what will happen next you're like
what does that mean for fnatic at this
MSI how well do you think they'll plays
so I think they will only lose one game
against the wait it's not it's kingsong
right yes yeah Kim so in the groups and
they would go to five games in the final
okay but you think they'll lose yeah I
think it's it's going it's going to be a
real hard series so so are you saying
that does that mean you think there's a
chance they could win MSI yeah okay okay
it's everything can I ask you a follow
sander go back to number one
international all the way all the way to
top Travis but a messiah has to win it
besides easier than the worlds so start
somewhere yeah can I ask you a follow-up
question please deuce so you had said
that you thought that there was a lot of
star players in Europe but that they
were scattered across mismatched right
scattered across different teams they
might be hard to detect because you know
like they're they're on different teams
than their mismatch
could you give me a list of some of
these names for these players I just I
have an internal skype group that might
be interested but I think yeah we'll
work that out just I need I need names
bio numbers are good as well I'm not
worried about the money part of it yeah
contracts
made in America I just remember so I'm
gonna use about it as well
no but a place like opposites that place
place like nuke that they have just
proven again and again that she can't
really perform on another level and a
mid-laner is crucial to to a team to
perform if you want more names
I got a pull-up team there's no no I'm
so I can't I'll ask a serious question
off of my meme question if if fanatic
let's say fanatic does do very well they
do well at MSI and they I'm not saying
they win but they do well and then they
go to Worlds and let's say they make
semifinals or maybe even they make
finals but they do not win do you think
that fnatic retains a hundred percent of
its roster because what you're saying
for the for this thing to build out and
for you to be a contender they've got to
stop bleeding talent to na which is our
favorite meme or do you think that it
doesn't matter that they bleed talent to
na for this well because there's
franchising right but it does
franchising change it actually French
franchising doesn't necessarily mean the
salaries between the two regions wise no
I I feel like it will because I think
that the people okay first off like I
think a lot of people question whether
or not the value of franchise like if
you LCS team should be should be sold
for the same price that na LCS teams are
but definitely should not be in a world
where they are going to be which is
apparently what riots asking you will
have a lot of people that will come in
with a lot of money willing to pay that
and I don't think that they're gonna
turn around and say like well I'm not
I'm not and I'm I am okay with the
talent that I have or the talent that I
want to procure going to North America I
think those people will happily spend an
extra hundred grand per player
200 grand per player to make sure that
those players don't go to North America
it is also assuming that in north light
we will not see a decrease in salaries
in North America next year which are
they gonna decrease in salaries in North
America I think there's a possibility
because I think you saw like a pretty
big bump as all these guys were coming
in and then trying to scale double right
here every year I don't know there's not
enough information out I think to say it
sure sure the rumor is that it doubled
yes Moore's Law right that's interesting
because when franchising happening in a
salaries doubled do we not think that
salaries will increase in to you yeah I
think that's what I'm saying is I think
salaries will increase in AU and we
might have a world where and they where
na LCS salaries either stay the same or
decrease and you might end up in a world
where there's more parity here
I still think America is a better
country to live in than anything in
Europe so maybe if they all decide to do
that but that would be for different
reasons too the salary right so yeah
well certainly then Germany worthy oh
sorry to our German just kidding
Germany is really sick okay I'm going to
Germany if they had in Sweden actually
and like no bias just to our caller but
I like Sweden awesome Davidson actually
it's a fair question do you think that
Europe European franchising will sort of
keep your talent in Europe and not you
know heading across the lands the
question yeah I just came up with it's
not really any other reason to go to any
right now because the solar queue isn't
so good in rumors and yeah yeah for the
weather but you know you play computer
games all day so yeah sure really good
so in a world where salaries are close
to equal and you know that you have a
better chance of going far in worlds
than you do in North America maybe
Europe is able to retain their talent
but I think this salaries depends
[Music]
what soccer teams and so on will be
accepted we have to dance yes and how
many and how little if they're going to
go the same way as they did with the NBA
teams or not
yeah just like four or they do will go
like full NBA and full soccer and you
know fnatic may but we're origin may be
another big one yeah we don't know but
if major skyrocketing place will come
back or place or to wash it up because
they're playing and I said look you I
don't know they come back and they
struggle we ruin them in North America
yeah perhaps perhaps well hey yeah your
since terrible now dude thank you so
much Davidson for calling in I really
appreciate it's always great to have you
here and I know no ill will based off of
your controversial opinions have a good
one
have a good day alright I'll be super
interesting to see actually I think you
know what happens if French if is is it
a hundred percent that it's happening
yes just rumored yes is happening and
they the rumor is the price if if the
price is gonna be the same because they
I don't think they've come out and said
it but I think it's probably pretty safe
it's hard to imagine like I I do not
personally think that a na LCS franchise
slot is equal to an EU LCS franchise
slot for a number of reasons that are
not necessarily related to the skill of
the players or anything that it's just
like market forces are different and
yeah and so it's it's hard to say I
don't know but I think it doesn't matter
like if if you are running EU LCS it's
probably hard for you to say that to
yourself to say like Oh mine is maybe
only worth 80% of the value or 75 or 90
percent like right you probably want to
say no no we're the same you know it's
just it's an interesting thing
especially if that that gets out like it
just it's weird situation we got a death
Reaper 33 on the show death Reaper where
you called from I am calling from Ridge
from Saskatchewan okay
Canadian caller what what do you want
you man I'm doing quite well what do you
want to talk about the show today so
originally when I was going on I wanted
to try to discuss whether or not this
MSI could really impact your success for
the summer split going forward and then
when I was thinking about it I kind of
started to flip-flop on my take on what
I was thinking so I wanted a more put a
question out for you guys to get your
opinion on it just based off I know for
most because I'm more into traditional
sports itself that going into say a
tournament or anything like that where
you have a lot of success riding into it
and you come to fall flat either by
getting knocked out in the group stage
or even going further it can really
dampen the mood and kind of set you back
going forward just because you're not
gaining that I guess peak success
whereas even if you fail at the
beginning there's a little bit less
pressure going forward into the next
season where it's not the expectation
like oh they got to semies oh they got
to finals they're going to blow the
water out of everyone there we got our
2018 summer split na LCS champions here
so I just wanted to figure out what you
guys thought on possibly the fact that
they may either go very successful or
very poorly and how that could impact
them going forward into the next so if
it the idea is if TL loses dramatically
that could be better for them in summer
split because there's less pressure and
less hype and maybe more motivation
whereas if they like kill it at MSI they
might stumble a little bit in the summer
exactly yeah if because the way I think
of it is sure they might have some
success even if they get through the
group stage and they make it to the
semis but I feel like that might just
overall cause a little bit more pressure
going into it I noticed like at the end
of
to split this season teams like TSM they
were definitely coming on as a blade I
mean they got knocked out in the
playoffs but I don't know if you play
that series five times more if they're
gonna get knocked out but I still feel
like hundred thieves is an up-and-coming
team I don't know if perhaps teams such
as I can't think of them off the top of
my head that clutch gaming I don't know
if they're gonna be up the top but I
still feel like for them they have that
added edge right now whereas they lost
many playoffs but if TL has that extra
expectation to succeed now because they
did so well in this tournament that it
might come to fight them again great I
think no matter what MSI will negatively
impact team liquids performance it's
like almost every team that goes to MSI
compete like feels like they always have
a bit of a comedown when they come back
into the summer regular season we saw
that last year and I think two years ago
as well from the most part feels like
just the fact that they're playing
longer they're more focused on competing
and those teams come in more fresh
during the summer split often Lisa like
a bit of a downtime because you're
taking that time off when other teams
are ramping up as well as the fact that
if they do poorly maybe they lose some
confidence if they do really well maybe
they're overconfident as well as fact I
think a lot of teeth like I think a lot
of teams will do well in summer split
like I think TSM will bounce back pretty
big I think hundred these will still be
good and all that stuff so I think no
matter how you slice it like TL will
look worse and somewhere regardless of
whether or not you are really gonna
fault MSI for that but yeah I think I
don't think I'm gonna they ever come
back from MSI and they're greater as a
team for the experience most these guys
have had plenty of international
experience do you think they're not
better long-term from the experience
right like that short-term Istanbul but
yeah what's like I guess if you saying
from worlds and maybe that may be like
or for summer playoffs right like you
Wow like they did okay at MSI but look
Team Liquid is like middle of the pack
by we
for week five but then they like going
in some win streak go off to playoffs
and get like second or first you know
yeah so I think potentially that would
happen as well but I think in the short
term I don't think there's any way that
they come back from this and it's
legitimately beneficial so I guess it
depends on the time frame of the
question so Marco I want to go back to
your questions or your statement just
thinking but I also want to get Calpis
stands first yeah I think that it is so
what you're talking about
is contextual based on the team and in
my experience from what I've seen and
managed and all that good stuff is that
younger teams tend to be more momentum
based and will have higher highs and
lower lows based on performance at major
events and experienced teams tend to be
more even keel team look good is a very
very experienced team as far as like the
players and how much they've played
internationally and been in the league
and stuff like that so I think that it
probably doesn't affect them
dramatically
either way whereas like when we saw c9
come into the LCS and they were all
really young
those guys were untouchable for a period
of time and they just rode their
momentum really hard for the first
couple splits they were in there and and
and you can do that with with a younger
team so I personally for 40 I don't I
don't really see it as having a big
impact on those guys especially like
knowing some of the personalities on
that team they're not like like Olli and
doublelift are probably the most like
erratic personalities on that team you
know what I mean yeah so do you think
sorry Kelly
the end result here you don't think that
going to MSI will have much an effect on
them either way yeah if anything I think
it's probably unless like they have a
spectacularly poor performance I think
it's a slight net positive just because
they've got you know a little bit more
experience together for synergistic
reasons but other than that yeah I don't
think it's probably has a major effect
just like I don't think would have a
major effect probably on TSM or or
something like that so mark the
follow-up to your statement which is
that you know it might be at least in
the short-term like a net loss for them
to to go to MSI regardless of what
happens that implies that going to MSI
is something to be avoided because
you're not you're not gaining anything
from going I mean other than
international success and more fans
arguably like I think I think it's
seemingly I would say proven but it's
it's been a demonstratable effect that
like you come back from MSI you have
usually two weeks to get ready for the
LCS and you haven't had a break yet so
those teams usually go on break during
like the first week of that and then
you're going into it you know the new
split with one week of practice
sometimes and as well as the fact that
you might just be more burnt-out in
general like I think you do tend to see
teams start slow after international
competition mid mid season but if your
goal is to go to Worlds and perform well
there and MSI can lower your skill set
or your capabilities a little bit then
it seems like MSI might be a detriment
to that plan well I don't I don't think
it would like long like I said I think
it was a long-term question I thought
this was saying like this will help them
in summer was like I don't think it will
help them in summer but might not affect
their world chances yeah I think like if
you go out there and you make finals and
you go and put out a great performance
or some shit and like when worlds comes
around maybe you have a little bit more
confidence in yourselves you've been
there before kind of thing is that as
that roster me maybe you can talk about
that affect but there'll be a different
meta the things you learn from your last
international competition in terms of
in-game stuff might not be super pret
prevalent like are you burnt out from
this that I think like Kelly was saying
kind of does depend on the team I think
long term probably net slight positive
assuming you don't just get shit on and
then short term I think it's only a
negative yeah death do you have any
asset is that a good satisfying response
to sort of your your thoughts on this
yeah I like I I guess I could see
exactly what you mean by that like I
don't
foresee them to do like spectacular
they're not I don't foresee them to win
at all so I guess I can see in the fact
that there is some positive that you did
at least make it there so there's
something to hang your hat on but I know
they're not going to be satisfied which
is going there to play and that it does
take a lot and it's mentally taxing for
them so I guess yeah it was a satisfying
not an answer for that yeah I think I
think for any as a region though like
expectations are so tempered that if if
TL goes and they have any sort of
success it's it's just good for the
region as a whole and you think you
poorly everybody's a guar do you feel it
because I actually I feel like this year
for the first time it's really neutral
like oftentimes when TSM goes people
hype it up a ton we ever CLG winter
Messiah like people downplayed and they
were like Oh sticks they came out and
said we think we're the second best team
here and it was just like oh these guys
are a wild-card team essentially this
year I feel like and maybe I've just
missed a conversation somehow no one
really knows what to expect with team
like with yeah but based historically on
any performances like if Team Liquid
does poorly everybody just be like but
if they do well it's like and I don't
think TSM had real expectations last
year either where it was like oh boy
turtle here we go
I thought TF people thought to has
somewhat outperform g2 maybe outperform
g2 but I don't think there was like much
hope of really doing well and then well
that's our benchmark for success don't
you know after the plane so they got
taken to five games by gigabyte Marines
I think everyone was like we fucking
blow and then goodbye Marines were in
like complete shit and there's a little
bit more confidence and like in the
group stage I know people remember like
trick looked awful he was like running
around on new new shit and people were
like alright maybe yeah they kind of
have a team
story yeah and then and then they
actually did really well in the knockout
best-of-five portion so like you know it
was that was that was weird MSI but I
think it's refer a while now I think the
general feeling has been like hey if we
get out of groups not that we're not bad
yeah well hey I think we do need to move
on but I want to thank you so much death
for calling in oh thanks do you mind if
I make a whole quick shout out to one of
my friends is listening right now we're
watching I guess hey Mahmoud thanks for
watching yeah thanks for coming guys
yeah thanks man I like he's like
shouting out his it wasn't like hey dude
what's up
talk to you later it was like thanks for
watching like thanks for tuning in to my
call in the hotline League yeah my
audience all right uh we got where were
we we got some people we have a caller
yes we are we're need to catch up on
these mark look I'm I'm happy though
because we've got the jammie Dodger on
the show jammie Dodger jammie is it
Jamie
it's the jammie Dodger Jamie is okay
what do you want to talk about Jamie you
never heard of jammie Dodger before what
is it that British biscuits British
either Travis time it's okay culture of
friends is Dodger a biscuit the jammie
Dodger is okay so you can't just have a
Dodger it's a jammie Dodger is it like a
pronoun because I assume that a jammie
Dodgers like a Dodger that you've liked
it a lot of jam on like this is that's
one jammie Dodger a shit like you go to
jammie Dodgers oh man
no it's it's like a brand it's like a
packaging brand oh yeah ok why did you
decide to make your dis court nameless
my name is Jamie
the joke is that it's like that the
jammy alright well I feel less bad about
calling you Jamie Jamie I think I
probably know but I'll ask anyway where
are you calling from
whoa I would have thought Thailand no
Jamie what do you want to talk about the
show today I want to talk about how
obviously yesterday someone posted up an
infinite article about kings and dragon
eggs and how once again
Koreans are hyping up other regions and
I just want to kind of get your guys
opinions and thoughts on how every
single international event Koreans come
out with these interviews saying how I
don't know like TSM's going to perform
or how fnatic is going to smash everyone
a so like that and how much of it is
just them being polite people needed
know there's a difference between what
Koreans say and what they mean and if
there's any truth to it or if it's
whether it's just team's underperforming
and not meeting the expectations or them
just being polite which it was sorry I'm
on the in event website what what was a
interview as long as I missed it it was
the interview with dragon eggs I believe
it was sin was court it's saying that
the gap between other regions this time
around it's not as big as it was in the
past which yes we've all heard before
specifically from the gap is closing
guys so a share an opinion that's what
all the show runs on comes do kelby
sorry no opinions allowed here only only
facts if you're a fight promoter and
let's say you're representing Conor
McGregor right or Floyd Mayweather one
of the one of the greats or something
like that right and you're in your prime
you're gonna whoever your fighter goes
out against they're gonna crush them
your opponent that they're fighting you
want to get the most views the most
sales possible right is it a good
narrative
to say that their opponent has no chance
or is it a good narrative to say that
your opponent is good and this is the
guy that might do the upset you know
like they're they actually have all this
strength bla bla or something like that
that's what Korea's doing they're
they're putting out fluff pieces about
other regions that they know are weak
just to make it seem like there's some
chance so that their victories that they
know are assured are greater than they
actually are so that the Korean
narrative continues about how they're
gods when really they're just shitting
on all the little kids got energy so
first off mark for some reason it's like
he did it's like when you when you we do
open your phone camera that's actually
on selfie and you're just like oh what
is that that's what Mark is experiencing
nothing changed just switch to my with
my day in my laptop webcam tell the
Skype to use the other one
I'm thanks fucker I've got a guest on
the show right now mark is grown up on a
computer
listen it's true jammie Dodger biscuit
boy I don't need your sass okay I get it
up for market Ellison - so I'm not I'm
not saying that that is actually
necessarily a hundred percent the case
but Korea does have a selfish reason to
make other regions look better than they
may actually be yeah usually like shit
talk a fair amount - like oh I'm a
brilliant face so bad you won't
recognize I don't want country i ball
they set for that's the opposite right
bullion that's not some saying is like
there's not as much of that from the
Korean so it's not quite hyped up the
same way but I think to Kelly's point
like I don't think it does anyone anyone
any good to just be like yeah I think
there's an insurmountable gap between
the world might as well not even tune it
yeah yeah like that doesn't get anyone
hyped plus if they do lose it just makes
them look even fucking stupider
so they do they go the Korea the most
Korean to the safe play they go for the
safe
efficient play so of respecting your
opponent I honestly like I know that
that is such the easy thing to believe
but in talking these guys like I will
ask them off outside of the interview of
the interview hands off said that I'm
just like why why do you guys always say
this shit and that's never true and they
always honestly believe it at least
that's the vibe I get from from the
several players I've talked to they
honestly do feel like and I think it's
because scrims happen sure like that
happens everything looks like it's a
little bit more closed until people
actually give in to it we've heard time
and time again that like TSM and teams
like them will just come in and like
destroy everyone in scrims Peter has
told me before that about times where
they're just like rampaging against like
top tier teams like SKT and then
obviously like everything falls apart on
stage now I know there's Graham screams
don't matter whatever but I can
understand why in these experiences you
end up with teams that are hesitant to
come out and be like well once again
Korean will reign supreme you know
because if you're getting you know
cramped on by I think North American
teams like you're probably more likely
to say this I think it's also the kind
of thing we're like individual skill and
Lee Legends is really really hard to
define cuz like I think at this point we
all accept the fact like for the most
part North American players can decently
Lane alright verse Korean players and
they don't get smashed in Lane and then
it becomes a team game and like your
individual skills and that team game
begin to shine and things like that and
that's I think that's where a lot of
this comes from is like and I don't know
what the Korean perception is of North
American players but I think some people
think like oh my god the Koreans are so
much better they're gonna destroy us and
then it's like no it's not quite like
that like the first 10 15 minutes might
be close and then like they'll make a
bunch of good plays and stuff like that
so I think it's maybe them kind of
saying like no he's a good he's a good
individual player he's just fine against
me in lane or like sometimes they beat
us in the early game and stuff like that
and then like scrims almost never never
get to like a legitimate on stage people
are approaching these situations the way
they would on stage to see the actual
skill difference and scribs like
that just never manifests in scrims when
it's about bear and vision control for
the next 10-15 minutes of this script
doesn't happen you don't get to see that
scrims historically play way bloodier
than stage matches at least when when I
was managing team sound yeah well until
every now and then you just hear the two
teams that are like we scream at each
other all week and it would just be like
nine and oh by ten minutes and then it'd
be like the opposite the next wait like
if it does feel like like sometimes you
just get like really weird one side so
anyway well even when it's close to the
screams it's not close like it is
onstage it's like oh they traded a lot
of kills we're like what is yeah it's
like wow what great vision play and
rotations it's like a right dreams don't
play like so we should stream scrims
and ignore tournaments because it's much
more exciting to watch dude thank you
for finally getting on my page man rooms
are where the hype is somehow read
between all those lines I said find my
true message listen mark I've gotten
there was a time where I just sort of
took you at face value now I've started
I've kind of got like the mark whisper
thing you know like I hear what you're
saying and when you say like everything
was great at offline I love all those
people you're really like
pokey is the worst person on the entire
planet I get it I now understand I get
it
yeah and the best part is if we stream
scrims people will actually think TSM
and these North American teams are good
because I mean some of those I think I
think we figured out the solution to our
problem I'm sorry Jamie do you take
issue with this seems like you might be
a little you biased so maybe that's why
you don't like our genius idea you're
big in a fan I ditched
[Music]
I'm happy that we haven't replaced one
for Davidson as our our traitor or EU
traitor for the show hats off to Jamie
who's your favorite
currently Team Liquid currently is that
are you is it like a bandwagon thing not
so much a bandwagon thing I followed a
double lift when kind of a long time ago
with CLG and watching him like panic
tell people on veins ages like this guy
the whole back stock you know played out
like an anime main character of his old
team by his best friend yeah yeah
dethrones his old team I thought it was
it was a beautiful story yeah yeah very
good but I do want to come back to when
when Kelby said then about the Conor
McGregor style kind of Koreans hyping
them up mm-hmm
I don't know if it's if it's necessarily
in in that mindset to hype people like
Travis was saying and like talking to
them outside of camera shots and stuff
like that and talking to them one-on-one
you look at players like Khan that have
no filter and and he just straight-up
was quoted saying all top lane is a
gonna kneel before me so I I think I I'm
with the kind of idea of these Koreans
actually do think that that there is a
chance yeah and to be clear here I don't
think all Korean players are of the same
attitude mentality personality right
it's not like I mean look at Khan you
can you can pretty tell how Koreans are
but yes I do think that what has
surprised me in the past is that
oftentimes you have Korean players who
are very vocal about and very confident
players will still give credibility to
North America or Europe in a way that
they you wouldn't expect and I don't
think that is because they have been
like trained to say nice things to help
build up a match or to try to get any
fans or anything like that I think I
think oftentimes the majority of the
time perhaps it's for other reasons so
yeah Jaime anything else you want to add
here I kind of just want to say that I'm
really looking forward to this other
side it would be really interesting to
see all like the obviously seeing
doublelift against its prey of course
easy for the like the first time ever
winning is winning with with these LPL
title finally yeah yeah be really cool
to see all these idiots
Jamie I want to thank you for being a
sub because I noticed your sub thank you
so much
I actually sub during your oh thank you
you need that IMSI scrilla yes thank you
it's helpful it's gonna be expensive
anyway thank you so much thanks seed
mark escape yet don't escape how comes
you're taller so my favorite callers
dude I mean Davidson says sup you didn't
want to hear in America I don't think
that's the case I we need to import any
you callers to that we had more
international callers this show than
we've had North American colors
especially if you can't Canada I don't
have we had a single what about the
Caribbean is that you have we had a is
cricket no I mean I go is not a us no
but like well we have Puerto Rico Puerto
Rico's US territory Mr Man 3 has subbed
XW subbed ceramics 3 sub said I wish for
my five dollars ago Travis got for
gambling fund but on 17 that weird dude
25 recursion TV swaggy bucks at five
dollars that's for the tweet back about
buying the Ellen by HP monitor today
thank you so much Maggie boob thank you
for the tweet that really helps that's
my Jam's free subbed who's for four
months and he says four months of
mistakes elephant
Ryan subbed Authority 7 and David Murphy
valve oh man Jedi mace sable flag
Foreman's excited that you'll be a MSI
kW salt 500 bits
fan Ron Jenkins said 500 bits and says
can I touch Kelly's hair
which hair you caught you caught who
sent those bits right Kobe wait who fan
Ron Jenkins Ron Jenkins my boy dear
friend of the show and noted strategy
was it that genre called grant strategy
Tran strategy oh yeah yeah he's pretty
much like one of the best total war
Warhammer 2 players in the world yoni
was a friend of mine helps me with some
stuff he just messaged me and I just
linked him to the stream and then he
immediately subs and says Travis which
interview are you most looking forward
to MSI you can't say doublelift Peter
pangs interview I'm very excited about
Peter pings interview I think that'll be
good
is that Gabe laughing at your joke cuz
that was a bad joke
oh thank God that was your wife not
laughing at Travis's joke either she's
watching she's watching something
what did she walk in it so fine share it
what are you watching
you're with the class okay what can't
you can't say no you're fine you're fine
easily shareable no it's like some
docudrama no she's laughing at docudrama
no I don't know it I'm getting it wrong
apparently get her on the show she's
gonna call it looking up who
trinidad-tobago had been sold by and
stuff like that to the surprise of many
yes Kelly does have a wife he found
someone to marry him we're not sure how
much she's paying her hit streak hello
good to see you Arie
I thought he was a caller first next
call next call yeah the greatest sale I
ever made in my life
she killed Britney's in the twitch chat
and she's explaining she said I'm
watching a YouTube video where a doctor
reacts to house m.d. and I'm dead it got
it okay
Thank You Brittany for calling for
clarifying that Brando nyan is it
brandonna
Brando nyan you've called it before
right
I haven't called in before yeah I've
seen you before how do you think how do
I say it brandoni in you got it this
time
I've subbed before and you tend to get
my name wrong but okay well listen if I
if you hadn't subbed all those times
maybe I wouldn't have got your name
right this time it's it's not a problem
let this be a lesson to everybody
subsidized get your name right when you
finally get what do you want or where
you calling from Orlando Florida
ornament and what do you our first
American caller right America yeah what
do you want to talk about of the show um
so I was selected to talk about like the
blatant gap between like a lot of the
plan and wildcard regions and now like
what the major regions are so NIU all
that fun stuff
so are you talking about your you
talking about the gap between the
playing teams and the I guess main event
teams or are you talking about the gap
between all the plan teams in each other
the plan teams and the major region so
those versus those no so nae all right
so what about it um I think it's gonna
be a lot less competitive between those
teams now and the major regions than it
has been in the past
why because I mean normally everybody
says that well car teams are not gonna
be very interesting and then you have
some really interesting moments where
while car teams come in and surprise
people really have like a better record
than North America sometimes like what
what makes you how do you why do you
feel this way
just from the showings so far they
haven't looked super great obviously and
then on top of that I think a lot of
those regions right now I've been kind
of unstable you have like normally in
the past you've had game and stuff like
that leave Oz come down it just little
things like that that I think will just
kind of take them down a notch so it's
not gonna be like that those cheesy
strategies you see that are just gonna
be like huge upsets because of like
crazy mechanical plays off of like
a cane like at world's versus IMT for
example what about like a gambit
I think gambits still actually they
probably one of the best one playing
teams if not the best right now um cuz
they've got a ton of hype I think I
think we said about them they have the
best chances I just think they just
still don't have much of a chance is
like and did like damn just was I think
there's a little bit something special
about them
I'm sure if that makes sense you're
Marines to be to be clear for those that
don't don't know yeah I think it's tough
I feel like once like there's always one
or two wild-card teams that are like
respectable not quite like they're like
you know an upper tea they would be an
upper team in like a region like ours or
something or like you know they'd be a
4th place team something like that but I
don't I I think there's just such a big
gap within the wildcards themselves is
like the bigger problem because if every
team was super massive or every team was
gigabyte marine so every team was Albus
knocks them or whatever it is like I
think it wouldn't feel quite as bad but
like you spend this whole time to get to
like the teams that you kind of already
knew we're gonna be the best of those
and like like you get a surprise every
now and then but it does it does feel I
think a little weird to spend a week to
get to that point a little bit yeah
that's my gear at that like the the
regions themself just tend to be less
competitive like gigabyte Marines was
just in a more competitive large region
cuz I remember seeing some like
infographic talking about like the size
of regions and like how large Vietnam
was too so you'll get the like a lot
more of those kind of hit and Jim talent
players like leave again that just kind
of show up and just surprise everybody
out of nowhere and I think overall like
those regions like within their own
competition they're just more
competitive so the level of play becomes
a little bit higher right like I think
you can look at Turkey like the t CL you
can look at
Vietnam and maybe the CIS region and
like those are the three regions that
generally do well at international
competitions and like OPL always sucks
LGL always sucks the Latin regions
usually suck so like it does feel a
little you know bad to constantly see
those kind of competitions going on or
at least release for me because like
it's a lot of the same players I think
for the most part like you've seen the
same guys pretty often yeah like I said
I just think that's part of like the
large populations like that like are in
most region like you have Korea
obviously that has like a huge player
base it's like even they're so acute you
get crows from from the LPL playing on
their server you have pros from Vietnam
playing on their server so on and so on
Taiwan and you're gonna just have like a
larger number of players playing against
each other screaming against each other
and just getting better together which i
think is just like kind of another
reason
EU and na kind of just always falls a
little bit short not necessarily just so
little cute but script wise and whatnot
mark do you think that we'll see a time
where these regions start to kind of
fill as competitive as some of the other
ones yeah I can believe it but it feels
like you have to I feel like you can
kind of just tell based off like those
kinds of other factors that Brendan was
talking about with like like what does
their scene look like do they have like
a real functioning scene do they have
like large player base numbers and
things like that and do you like our
orgs really invested on and like running
this like actual you know business those
kinds of things really I think can help
you kind of tell like which of these are
really competing well and I don't know I
think like the LMS is another reason
that does it does alright and I think
they'll get there and I think this
international competition stuff helps
them but it feels like we're constantly
picking the same kind of pool of talent
pretty consistently yeah with the
of when when a gigabyte Marines kind of
like exploded onto the scene for a year
yeah I don't know Kelby you have any
thoughts on this I unfortunately cannot
contribute much in this department
because I didn't because they're
wildcard regions yeah I don't watch
those regions tough life
brandoni um yeah any additional thoughts
um I was kind of just kind of its kind
of piggybacking off of like the last
caller a little bit um and just like how
like n/a is like memed by Korea but I
don't really think it's necessarily a
meme I think we're just kind of slower
as a region to like adapt so like even
like internationally you'll see will do
very well
week one but then week two teams adapt
us and they what bar ass no put it
lightly but then like you have regions
like EU that'll kind of make it out of
groups and stuff like that because they
kind of adapt and I think that's a
bigger part of it not consistently make
out of groups and whatnot but they'll do
a bit better than na just
internationally speaking right I think
part of that is goes back to like that
whole topic of like na just likes to
kind of recycle a lot of talent or we're
pulling from you talent so we're not
testing enough so I think what like na
would have to do to kind of compete as a
region would need to kind of risk losses
like risk a lot like not maybe placing
first second third fourth like in during
the regular season to actually develop
talent as a region so it's like you risk
your team's name in order to make the
region better in a way that makes the
golden Guardian strategy actually though
in a way like until now we have I mean
they're recycling a little bit now we
have Mickey back and stuff like that and
key like 5050 Mickey all that yeah hey
thank you so much Brenda again for
calling in and thank you also for being
a sub we've had two subs in a row but
really appreciate your support no
problem thanks for doing mark is so
quick mark like wants to get through
these calls you can tell he's hopping
into the next call
boba color get
the sub to Luna bumblebee tuna thank you
so much and real foxy one gifted a sub
too hard
thank you so much for the subs we have I
believe our next caller coming in any
minute Kelly what's going on over there
what's going on the bay
are you meated did you meet yourself
your muted I'm eating my I muted myself
cuz Britney was laughing a lot Oh tell
Brittany can we swap Calvi out for
Britney I wish I've been asking that for
a year you can just even as a friend you
want to what seems a little late in the
show we'll get well let's see what color
at some point in time we'll get a caller
well how about we just start the next
episode with her instead of Kelly so you
get it do it do it
Khan is on the show welcome back on it's
been a bit oh yeah it's okay I'm always
here
loving the show where are you calling
from again oh good old Idaho Idaho
that's right and what do you want to
talk about on the show today well I was
talking about this I've always been
pretty not negative net riot but pretty
tough on them and especially the NA LCS
and how they're handling things but I'm
kind of giving a lot a call and give
them praise about the Oakland thing and
how they handle it what is exciting what
is exciting to you about about that well
first like this is just like I don't
live near Oakland but just check him
like plane tickets you know Sam friend
Oakland today and even hotel prices like
they're a lot more affordable then like
a lot of the previous locations and also
I was you know what I liked was it was
you know somewhere different I know a
lot of people were piggybacking on the
idea that oh na LCS is played in
California why is it always in
California but as somebody who's moved
from like the east coast to the west
coast I like don't I know people over
there don't understand just how far away
these places are yeah I mean California
its fifth largest economy officially as
of this week you know that
in the world yeah so like I think riot
made a smart choice they they said
things earlier I think there is a lot of
hate that like I understand the Midwest
Midwest deserves something here like
they should have got this one they
should have gotten one time something
but like the south you know the west
coast or the Southwest really hasn't
gotten anything since like Las Vegas and
they're wrong
well they had they've had multiple
finals in LA All Stars is at the NA LCS
studio
I mean na LCS is there all the time like
it's hard for me not to feel like the
West does get a significant amount of
stuff is interesting so you're you're of
the take that it's good first off I
think it's great that they announced it
earlier I'm happy that they chose a
arena that has like 20,000 people in it
I I don't know I have mixed feelings
about the Bay Area situation like I
think granted they are Iams but I am at
a hard time selling arenas with league
stuff in that area I think it might be
harder to fill those seats than people
expect so I am a little worried about
that and I don't know I thought we bury
events for eSports like attendance has
been pretty poor yeah and that's my
concern is it's weird because you would
expect it to be good because you've got
a bunch of like tech people in the area
but for some reason they just don't
really show up so I don't know if that's
because like the demographic is not
there maybe you know like it's it's more
of like a college age group that's like
driving is ticket sales or whatever but
I am a little nervous for this event and
I also like from from visiting all
coracle like Oracle's are pretty old
arena it's my understanding they're
literally replacing it next year
I I don't know I just I'm not as hyped
about about senator finals being there
I'm just happy they announced and I'm
happy that's not any small I'm happy
it's on the NA LCS to do con you said
some people were hating on it like III
didn't see much of that so like is it
that prevalent or in like what were
there I mean the Midwest has a severe
kind of gripe to it but there was a lot
of people like mention like all there
never gave you something in DC they're
never gonna do something in like Detroit
they're never
go to Philadelphia and it was like you
know somebody who loved him like I loved
in Pennsylvania for you know 17 years
and like I live on the west coast now
like I live right on the Idaho
Washington border like Seattle for me is
like six hours away if I like took that
six hours where I lived in PA I had like
ten major cities within six hours yeah
so like four people in DC that complain
that like oh we never get an event I'm
like you guys had plenty of like MSG is
closer to you than it is for like even
if I got like a Seattle Vancouver event
yeah I I guess it's fair yeah I mean I I
am less sensitive to the people who are
like wait there was in a big event in
Florida I want to have one in like
Georgia or whatever I do think Texas is
due for one but I kind of said this on
the show like I've heard rumors that
there's like tax complications with riot
holding events in Texas and that makes
it actually much harder I've never heard
any more details than that I've just
it's like a bomb in the thread that
announced this event said that again
that like Texas is just I guess a bitch
to set things up for oh he actually said
it well he didn't say their bitch but
like you can read it he said like dude
attacks slash laws it's hard to do it in
Texas yeah he made a pretty didn't even
although he's in Texas he just said some
Midwest states but it was pretty obvious
that it meant Texas yeah it was in the
red okay well it wouldn't surprise me
based on for the stuff that I've I've
heard before I can't I can't find at the
moment but I believe you so I don't know
I think Texas would be nice I'm happy
that Canada got some stuff I think it'd
be cool to go back to the Midwest like
Chicago could do it again but it's Lee
after they had it world's event there so
I don't know I'm like 50/50 I would love
to see it in like a st. Louis or
somewhere like what I think Chicago its
Midwest but that's still not like like
if you said like the Chicago is Midwest
there's like a lot of people and you're
Oklahoma's and you're Texas about Boise
so that's sexy that's like not even
north it's Northwest is it okay yeah I
just think cousin
now Alvin I just don't think people on
the East Coast realize how far some of
these states and cities go chopper said
for some of the regions being mentioned
there are some tricky tax and legal
challenges we need to work through for
others it's a low number of venues that
can head all of our technical needs and
meet our tight availability windows so I
guess didn't explicitly say Texas but
you could you could somewhat imply I
don't know how MLG used to do it over
there maybe they had some other deal who
knows I I know that sometimes taxes and
Lee legal stuff can get really
complicated but hit streak who is a
friend of the shows and twitch that
right now he's building up Bay Area's
saying like there's so much to do in the
Bay Area and I guess I didn't know this
but Oracle's apparently been recently
renovated so maybe that will be a hype
maybe it'll be better than I remember
from whenever I am used to be there so I
don't know it's a it's an interesting
topic though and I do appreciate you
calling in con I'm curious I'm just
really curious to see how it sells out
because as as Kelly says Bay Area events
have been hard to make happen but for
all the people that are like I would
have flown and I can't fly like you can
fly here you can fly to the Oakland
Airport you can fly into SFO and you can
go to this so I think this events out
just because I you know I am for some
reason like small international
competitions like IEM schref rivals even
MSI little but it seemed less major than
na LCS finals or Els finals I think the
third and fourth place match will be
really tight if there's not a popular
team there like if TSM makes it to third
and fourth and I'm sure a lot of people
will show up but imagine a world where
there's no TSM like I this has always
been the problem with these bigger
venues is that you can't sell out third
and fourth place match generally
speaking and that's like a pretty big
financial cost I think well I think the
third fourth place matches the stupidest
thing right they have for these little
CSS ID rather than hosts like Academy
championships on the other day oh that's
a great way to make sure nobody shows up
yeah you should yeah but no I I agree I
don't like 3rd 4th place match either
it's really shit points whoo
oh and then everybody cares so much and
then the last comment I'll make is based
off the last guy and he is pointing out
that if you take away c9 wildcards has
made it out of groups just as many times
as any other na team has since the
adoption of the new group system if you
take away c9 so maybe we aren't that far
different than they are well why would
we take away c9 yeah trying to do here
con hey if you take away the successes
you only got failures yeah but those
reasons all get one team when we get
three Hey don't wait don't be rude to
the colors mark sorry there's multiple
wildcard teams we're gonna we're gonna
go parth on this bitch right okay all
right all right God thank you so much
for calling it Hugh thank you guys and
thank you again for always host yeah
thanks for being a twitch sub in a mod
appreciate here's what you can do you
can email me a paper and if you want we
will publish it and we'll talk about
what that's an amazing amount of work
all right as far as willing to read a
whole thesis on so 5,000 word minimum I
would not read anything by anybody I
don't even read books by like James
Joyce or anything I'm not gonna read
here's the thing I want you to watch it
I want you to narrate your paper I want
an audio oh I would audible it there's
traffic yeah donkey punch Dan recept for
five months thank you so much in bluej
1344 savage for two months and says it
just keeps asking me to share this so I
guess I guess that's nice of you
also for the record I'm on part side
even though I'm making jokes I would
like to say by the way some of those
might have some of you might have seen I
did a video it's on the YouTube right
now talking about I'm going to MSI on
Wednesday I don't have a sponsor for MSI
so all I'm covering it and fine I can do
this if anybody wants to help support
there's been some very very generous
people hit streak being one of them in
the chat right now who have helped
pitch in to support and help lessen the
blow for for me so you guys can do that
and I'll stick around after the show is
done for an ama and maybe some call ends
and stuff to kind of help continue the
fundraising drive irish blizzard is on
the show he's also a sub i'm a little
worried that the non subs are going to
riot soon but irish blizzard where are
you calling from hey I'm from I'm
calling from Cornell University oh I've
been to Cornell yeah
isn't that an Ithaca okay am I wrong
what is okay sorry you kind of cut out
uh what what I just have to I just have
to point out the fact that you didn't
tell us the reach and you had to let us
know that you were calling from an Ivy
League university yes which I love and
appreciate about you
hello I'm calling from my PhD yeah it
was you it like I want somebody to call
on some time in their their name on
discord is just like one julio PhD or MD
or whatever you know just flaunting this
list we're at listen
iris blizzard I hope you feel
comfortable this is a safe space we only
want our callers to feel comfortable
what would you like to get right a paper
which is perfect for an Ivy League what
would you like what would you like to
talk about on the show today
a topic was about sin changes in video
game oh oh they're kind of a
double-edged sword he's cutting out
recently yeah he's the recent changes in
what he's bouncing video games your
microphone picks you up late so why
don't you start with a like an AH to
warm your microphone up in it ah so I
wanted to talk about patch notes and
video games okay okay that works
keep talking put the off first I wanted
to talk about how they're they're both
good and bad for the scene okay cuz you
you have to go all at once just say it
all at go
so I think that they're good needed for
the video games to keep them and like to
make that people still keep playing game
I said like traditional sports its lots
of it so so you think it's good to patch
your it sounds like what you're saying
it's it's good to patch frequently
because it allows eSports to stay fresh
and engaging in a way that traditional
sports doesn't exactly okay but were you
gonna say the downside is that what's
the downside because no downside right
Kobe we start the discussion wait no I
have to know the downside cuz you said
it's a good and bad thing
oh what's the downside that is that it
affects the staying power of individual
games like League of Legends compared to
dota oh good so continue continue oh
that like it's hard for a casual fan to
stay stay committed for multiple years
yeah we've talked about this a fun
because they patch too frequently in
League of Legends are saying both games
okay but he said League of Legends vers
DOTA DOTA is on a 2-week patch system
now now it is that's my point is that
like I thought he was praising dota
which has a more or you used to have a
more infrequent patch schedule but now
it's on the legal under schedule because
dota 2 covered everything legal Asians
did yeah yeah I think even with the less
frequent patch schedule as a casual fan
come especially compared to traditional
sports and we've talked about this
you're you're absolutely right that it
is way harder to follow we've talked
about this on hotline league before
we're like I ran and watch scrims and
had a very good understanding of the
competitive meta of League of Legends
when I was running CLG and then when you
when I transitioned out the organization
stopped watching less didn't play the
game especially when you don't play the
game
although I didn't play the game but like
I was watching so much I essentially
played the game like it's so hard to
like have the same appreciation I find
didn't like me watching leaked now is
not as fun as when I played the game you
know what I mean it's not it's not the
same viewer experience maybe it's
because I played the game before and I
had the understanding and appreciation
of like understanding a game at a high
level and then really understanding
nuance between what's happening on
screen but yeah like you what football
is the same fucking thing if I watch it
now and I haven't watched traditional
sports religiously since high school
basketball baseball it's all the same
it's super easy to pick up and yeah
because traditional sports operate under
a different business unit than video
games do video games are not there to
make money from their eSports properties
they're there to make money from their
player bases and sell units and
microtransactions so of course those
spaces operate differently eSports is
the marketing component of these titles
so that you can get viewers more engaged
in spending money on the game and
hopefully one day the blizzards and the
leagues and stuff like that are may are
hoping to make these eSports ventures
profitable in and of themselves but at
this point there's just been marketing
vehicles so yeah since since the revenue
from the game is driven based on
interaction keeping things fresh
continuously producing new content that
keeps the player base engaged keeps them
spending money at the same time for the
casual viewing experience as you've
denoted it's much harder to follow and
keep up compared to the traditional
sports viewing experience and that is
probably if we're taking the next step
further as we've extrapolated the thing
that keeps in my mind and my personal
opinion
keeps eSports from reaching the same
level of cultural privation and
relevancy that traditional sports has
because it is hard to have as wide a
pool because following casually is just
so difficult nice knees go for it I'm
gonna try without sneezing I think the
other thing too is that like sports
don't really get outdated whereas games
get outdated like yeah graphics look
like shit like and people as much as
they like to pretend they don't care
about it they do
and I think baseball is getting outdated
baseball's getting outdated because
attention spans and the actual well
that's an example though right is that I
do think like in in comparison to
something like baseball you can update
the league or you can update games
frequently enough that the moment that
your audience like the the trend towards
Battle Royale right now is a pretty good
example and all these people didn't have
like Battle Royale became super trendy
and now you're everyt getting into it's
a way to save a game right but that's
that's happening are such different time
scales I don't think it's quite fair to
compare them with baseball is like
people literally just don't watch it
anymore it's like baseball fans moved on
it's like they're not generating new
baseball fans to it doesn't appeal to
the current demographic where is like
what happens is in video games like
League fans became overwatch players
then they became this other thing like
the the fan base actually shift around
as well as like sometimes they just grow
up and move on but you always get
supplanted with new players the problem
is those players don't necessarily go to
your game and then that kind of thinks
like it's just happening on such a
faster timescale we're like graphics
matter gameplay matters like you said so
like I think regardless even if you made
a game that didn't patch like melee is
unbelievably unique but like I don't
think that's at all like a replicatable
eSports ecosystem where it's like yeah
we're just gonna make one game and
that's gonna be it and we're gonna like
to really really minor balance changes
for the next 15 years and I just don't
think that would work with how the video
game Mike Kelly was saying marketplace
works because it's not it's not like
sports
fundamentally it's like yeah like I
don't give a fuck about my way yeah and
even if they did I'm not sure what it
would have helped the team they probably
fucked it up but like I don't think you
could take legal edge and say we have a
great core gameplay here we're gonna
stop with all the balance changes just
gonna let the meta settle no one's gonna
bother to touch this game and I'm sure
they like that will be better for the
casual viewer because while I think the
the frequent patches does hurt them it
also keeps the player base fresh which
is important whereas like if you just
don't touch the game people are just
gonna move on and then they've been the
scene will die yeah his streak links and
there'll be a tenant's are
Cole and says MLB attendance of stayed
relatively flat since 2006 I don't know
if it be interesting enough MLB
viewership has stayed relatively flat I
do know that what hasn't stayed flat is
the average age of an MLB viewer which
is getting older and older and older
like it and that's not great because
your audience is aging not to tangent
too hard on this but a lot of the
Nielsen ratings of those things are hot
garbage anyways super hot garbage man
super fucking hot garbage and like when
you factor in a like even if you do
generate new young baseball fans they're
not watching on cable which is how
they're getting this and they're
probably not even paying for MLB network
on online either like people just
bootleg streams all over the place like
when I hit 22 and I'm still watching the
NFL I didn't have cable and I didn't pay
for shit I just found bootleg streams
all the time that were fine quality
silly it's actually kind of hard to tell
exactly yeah there's actually about
170,000 people watching the show right
now it's just people don't want to watch
they just they're bootleg streams of
hotline League all over you go to three
empty walls to watch this yeah you go to
Ustream hotline League is there you know
you got yeah you go to some crazy
Chinese streaming service hotline League
is there you know yes it's hard the
doyou numbers are insane for your line
League
yeah Chinese people they love us yeah
let's move the point is it's it's like
it's hard to say what's even happening
for me like I hear these things and I'm
like well think about like what the new
users would even look like for those
like they're not buying cable packages
to watch anymore
cable is the fucking worse thing yeah
maybe I was dying forget sports dying
sports was always delivered by cable and
now that's dying so like is it the
medium or the the content eSports was a
mistake
Irish Blizzard Irish Blizzard do you
have anything else that you would change
we live down a crazy tangent but do you
have anything else that you you want to
bring up or any thoughts well I think I
think the Internet Irish Blizzard thank
you so much for here did you fall asleep
I put the input the opposite way so it
was actually really low instead of
really hot okay
Cornell student by the way of what do
you have anything else that you want to
add here at the end um I I also wanted
to know in like I in my argument about
how it kind of added of integrity of I
guess is it specifically League of
Legends in that the changing patches
also change how well players can perform
in each meta like specifically this past
spring with I think CL got really lucky
with the fact that the meta moved away
from toppling completely and impacts
weaknesses in Lane weren't able to be
exploited so I think that kind of hurts
the competitive integrity and Longet of
eSports sometimes yeah I don't know if
it's a competitive integrity issue but I
do think it is it is frustrating when
you see a team that has done so well
struggle because a off meta patch comes
out for them at the end of the split and
I know the argument is like well you
know they should just be prepared for
that for any any possible scenario but
if I told you that like every five
minutes like the floor was gonna become
lava and the players had to jump on to
their desk and they couldn't keep up
doing that and they lost like that is
going that you know there's a lot of
reach
you can't just constantly change the
variables so much and there are decree
only degrees to which you can you can
change them and expect people to be able
to adapt yeah I also think like it's not
so much of competitive integrity
problems so much is it just like once
again makes it hard for viewers to track
like what's going on in a player's
career where it's like in sports if a
player has a bad season it's like oh
they were slumping or something but
sometimes like you said like a meta just
changes and if you're not keeping up on
what the changes were you don't know why
this team started sucking because you
know they're like the game actually
changed whereas like in basketball a few
people go through slot maybe a player
got injured or something I think it's a
lot more it's not easier to identify
what's going on within team dynamics
when the game stays the same but when
the game is changing and the team is
going through all these phases and stuff
like I think it becomes very hard for
the cash
fan to understand exactly what is like
the cause and effect happening yeah
thoughts Kelby yeah no I mean I agree
it's good to hear I just I wish you said
you agree and more often when we're
talking
I hate when come via Greece Irish
blizzard thank you so much for calling
on the show I hope Cornell operates
their Internet I do really like it
that's great place and appreciate you
calling and thanks so much and thanks
for being a twitch sub thanks guys
thanks man
all right well I think and that is the
show yeah you got a college me yeah well
I don't like to flaunt um if you if
anybody's watching right now in the
twisty go to college I went to Pacific
Lutheran University that's cool I hang
out on stream because I'm gonna I'm not
gonna just keep watching everybody but
let's go down and say the goodbyes mark
do you have any shoutouts yeah don't
keep watching go to Szell's channel i
think he'll be do you have any show they
never went to the M&E anything play that
for some reason because we're bored out
of our minds
I just wanted to say that the
chainsmokers have a subreddit now you
guys can all go and subscribe to the
chainsmokers subreddit I think it's how
long do they get banned on that
underscore so here's a funny story yeah
yeah this subreddit was actually private
for a really really long period of time
like it was not an open community but I
knew that it existed and I used to
always message the mods of the subreddit
to try and like you know get access to
it or whatever I don't know what they
were using it for while I was private or
even if I had anything on it but I used
to always message the mods to try and
get access to it I did that for like
probably a year and a half or two years
where I would message them on like every
like four months to try and get access
to it and then I just found that it was
open publicly available and
there's like nobody on there but they
post on there all the time apparently so
that's cool maybe they'll start making
EDM again I need actual the artist will
post on there yeah dude you got it you
got it tell me yes ma'am
I want them to do an AMA and then I need
them to any Kelby to be the top we need
to vote for grade the shit out of we
need to we need to get these core we
need to get the AMA to take place while
we're doing the show or we will
strategically move hotline League to the
same time as the AMA and that we will we
will flat use our massive twitch
audience to vote Brigade the shit out of
Kelly's sock comments and it'll just be
like you guys blocked me because of this
of this like could I get unblocked and
also do you feel like it's justified the
way that you blocked me yeah your
fucking social media intern block the
biggest fan of your group or just
longest promoter or I didn't hate them
everyone could just spam the AMA with
like hey Kelly's your biggest fan look
at all these instances of him shouting
you out on the most prolific eSports
show out there hotline League you want
to hear a really funny story
no is that when so when they blocked me
I'm gonna continue anyways mark when
they blocked me I went back through my
Twitter history I think I maybe told you
about this Travis I went back through my
Twitter history and I recorded every
single tweet I'd ever made about the
chainsmokers that was positive and
tallied up all the impressions and
engagement I'd gotten for it and then
tallied up the one negative tweet that I
made which was not even like very
negative and the impressions against it
and was gonna like post this big thing
about how like I think it's really
fucking funny that I promoted you guys
for this long and giving you guys this
much exposure and then I get blocked for
one fucking tweet I never did it I
didn't know what kalbi this this is what
I would say if I was them I'd be like
you gave us those impressions we gave
you those impressions bitch you would be
a fucking nobody
if you didn't tweet about us
chainsmokers before they were anything
when they were small potatoes yeah and
how many impressions did those get huh
they built you Kelby you stand on the
shoulders of the chainsmokers way from
2013 to 2016 oh yeah 2016 not only not
only did you not only did you offend the
chainsmokers in 2016 you offended hit
streak in 2018 whoa assuming social
media people are interns I feel targeted
I further for the chainsmokers record
label the dudes who are handling their
account yeah they're probably not like
you know they're probably kids
additionally we've got an end for you
Kelby Denny nukes who is a sub I don't
know much else about him but he's in
he's in the chest which from he says I
know a girl who slept with another chain
smoker so we get Denny just hit updating
you he'll get you the girl girl gets to
the chainsmokers and we can resolve
everything via that method I think still
in contact
absolutely not she got ghosted the next
day if I know my boys I'm not
encouraging that sort of interaction if
you're in that sort of relationship and
you're open to it that's totally fine
you know but I'm not saying that you
should disrespect anybody or all the
things okay she didn't exist she has a
snapchat of him like his personal Sancho
okay
just near mine so that's how you ly met
me Joker can't spell says I know their
creative director kelpies madam yeah
yeah if he's talking about Zola yeah
yeah yeah
all right cool dude for me I'm gonna
stick around there's a video put my
channel talking about MSI I am flying in
36 hours roughly I think two
where I will be working with Brodin to
create MSI content I do not think that
the next episode of the show will be
happening on a Monday because we will
its they'll be games and all the stuff
happening and I'll be covering it and
I'll be sleeping I don't know but we I
will try to do a hotline League next
week with mark can't make any promises
about what that looks like but hopefully
it works out great and you guys can
check that out YouTube is there if you
guys want to help I'm trying to raise
funds for EMA science over at
TransCanada comma slash support and
patreon.com such drivers gaffer I don't
have a sponsor um it's gonna be
expensive so any support there is
appreciated but if you're a college
student please do not worry about yeah
and until that that content gets out
there you can go and watch my ASM oh you
can watch my SMR video too you know just
really pass the time it's great I put a
lot of effort into it hope you guys
enjoy it
Brittany did you watch my ASMR video
Kelby what are you laughing at this time
Kelly doesn't care about me no I did
watch oh she's still watching the same
youtube channel I watched the ASMR video
for like 30 seconds skipping through it
and realized that you were just trolling
not that I care about it took you 30
seconds to figure out he was trolling
did you see my leg fart I was just
wondering if he didn't roll at some
point I know I didn't see her light
farts they were impressive actually this
has been a hotline League episode 26